
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  
1. GERD
2. Gastroparesis
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: 
Same 
PROCEDURE: 
1. Robot assisted Laparoscopic pyloroplasty
2. Robot assisted Lap fundoplication
3. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy
 
SURGEON: Amber L Shada, MD 
ASSISTANT: Yousif Hanna, MD resident
ANESTHESIOLOGIST: Anesthesiologist: John B Silva, MD
Anesthesia Resident: Carson Bridgman, DO
Clinical Anesthetist: Morgan Mann, C-AA
ANESTHESIA: General endotracheal anesthesia. 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: 5 mL 
INDICATIONS: This is a 62 year old female with multifactorial abdominal pain, symptoms of gastroparesis and objective GERD refractory to medical management. 
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS: 
There was a tiny sliding hiatal hernia. The diameter of the hiatus was approximately 3cm.  Extensive type 2 mediastinal dissection was performed to fully reduce the hernia, excise the hernia sac and maximize intraabdominal esophageal length greater than 2.5 cm without tension. The anterior and posterior vagus nerves were identified and preserved during the procedure. The diaphragmatic closure was performed with 1 simple interrupted non-plegeted 0-Ethibond sutures,  . A Ultra-short Nissen fundoplication was performed over the endoscope after complete mobilization of the short gastric arteries. Endoscopy was used throughout the operation to identify landmarks, ensure adequate intra-abdominal esophageal length and to evaluate the fundoplication.. A 5 cm Heineke-Mikulicz pyloroplasty was performed. 
DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The patient was taken to the operating room  where they were placed in the supine position. General endotracheal anesthesia was obtained. The abdomen was prepped and draped in the usual fashion. The abdomen was entered using a Veress needle technique through a small horizontal skin incision to the left of midline in the left upper quadrant. Saline drop test confirmed intraabdominal position. Pneumoperitoneum was established and the Veress needle was exchanged for a 5 mm trocar. The laparoscope was inserted and additional trocars were placed under direct visualization following the instillation of 0.25 percent Marcaine with epinephrine.Lysis of adhesions was performed to clear the anterior abdominal wall for trochar placement.   In total, 3 left upper quadrant trocars and 1 right upper quadrant 5-mm trocars were used. The liver was retracted anterior and lateral, giving excellent exposure of the esophageal hiatus.  The robot was brought to the field and docked.
 
The gastrohepatic ligament was divided to gain access to the right crus. The phrenoesophageal ligament was divided between the esophagus and the right crus in this location gaining access to the mediastinum. The phrenoesophageal ligament was divided circumferentially to completely mobilize the GEJ. The dissection was then carried into the mediastinum to maximize intra-abdominal esophageal length. The short gastric arteries were then divided with the Harmonic scalpel to completely mobilize the fundus. A posterior crural closure was performed by placing permanent sutures as above.  We then performed a ultra short nissen fundoplication. The fundus was then brought behind the esophagus and a shoeshine maneuver was performed to create a greater curvature to greater curvature fundoplication. Two gastropexy sutures were placed, 1 posteriorly at the 12 o'clock position and one anteriorly, taking the left wrap to the 11 o'clock position on the diaphragm. The endoscope was inserted across the GE junction into the stomach the  fundoplication was performed using a single interrupted 0 Ethibond suture, securing the 360 degree fundoplication to the esophagus at the 11 o'clock position.  Two additional sutures were used on each side of the wrap securing the fundoplication to the esophagus at the 10 and 2 o'clock position where it lay comfortably. The scope was removed. 
 
A gentle kocher maneuver was performed to mobilize the pylorus. A 5 cm pyloromyotomy was created with the harmonic scalpel. The defect was closed transversely in a Heineke-Mikulicz type fashion using a running 2-0 2-0 Stratafix absorbable  suture. The endoscope was passed trans-orally to the duodenum through the pyloroplasty. There was no evidence of obstruction. Air leak test of the suture line was performed. There was no evidence of a leak. Retroflex view revealed a properly constructed fundoplication.
 
The abdomen was inspected for hemostasis and retained foreign body, which was adequate. The robot was undocked and removed from bedside. All sponge and needle counts were correct. The trocars were then removed. The skin was closed with subcuticular absorbable suture and skin adhesive. The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no apparent complications. The patient was extubated and transferred to recovery in stable condition.
 
 
COMPLICATIONS: none
Specimens none
 
Drains  none
 
Amber L Shada, MD